---
layout: post
title: "note-taking post – bpf kernel dev - how to begin hacking it"
date: 2022-09-10 15:03:22 -0300
categories: kernel-dev bpf notes
---

# note-taking post - bpf kernel dev - how to begin hacking it

After spending some time lurking on the bpf mailing lists, I figured out it might be a good idea to start checking some code as well.
So, I decided to clone the bpf-next tree and check what's in there. This way, I can see some of the patches that I've seen in the mailing list. 

I've also seen some interesting issues on the libbpf mirror on Github, from OSSFUZZ. [1]

{% highlight bash %}
git clone https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/bpf/bpf-next.git/
cd bpf-next
# Making the config for kvm
make defconfig
make kvm_guest.config
# compiling
make -j40
# installing the new kernel
sudo make install
# updating grub
sudo grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfg

# check everything :)
qemu ➜  ~ uname -a
Linux kernel-dev 6.0.0-rc3-00815-g2fae67716bb9 #1 SMP PREEMPT_DYNAMIC Sat Sep 10 15:14:27 -03 2022 x86_64 GNU/Linux

# also a good idea to check google.com
# since your interface may have its name changed
curl google.com
{% endhighlight %}

Truth is: I don't understand this issue [1] 🤡

I will take a look at the selftests then. [2]

{% highlight bash %}
# compiling tests
make -C tools/testing/selftests
{% endhighlight %}

I saw a bunch of errors... attempted to only make the bpf tests.

{% highlight bash %}
cd tools/testing/selftests/bpf
make
{% endhighlight %}

And more errors! Related to this [3].

And I realized that I found a small bug! 

{% highlight bash %}
Error: failed to load BTF from /home/kernel-dev/bpf-next/vmlinux: Unknown error -2
{% endhighlight %}

This "Unknown error" should actually be positive to tell that the file does not exist. I tried changing it manually on the code and I got the right message.

{% highlight bash %}
Error: failed to load BTF from /home/kernel-dev/bpf-next/vmlinux: No such file or directory
{% endhighlight %}

This is how you compile the bpftool.

{% highlight bash %}
./tools/testing/selftests/bpf/test_bpftool_build.sh
make -s -C tools/bpf/bpftool
{% endhighlight %}

Will keep you posted if this change makes its way to the kernel :).

## References

\[1] [libbpf #484](https://github.com/libbpf/libbpf/issues/484)
\[2] [Linux Kernel Selftests](https://static.lwn.net/kerneldoc/dev-tools/kselftest.html)
\[3] [bpftool: print correct error message when failing to load BTF](https://patchwork.ozlabs.org/project/netdev/patch/20200525135421.4154-1-tklauser@distanz.ch/)
